So next,
we're going to look at two services, Amazon CloudWatch and AWS
Config, that help you manage your infrastructure.
But let's quickly take a step back and look at all of the services
that enable you to manage your infrastructure.
And the first of these that we have is Amazon CloudWatch,
and this provides metrics, logs, and alarms for your infrastructure.
Then, we have AWS Config,
and this continually evaluates your infrastructure
against a predefined set of rules.
Now we'll be covering both of these within this clip. And
the next option is AWS Systems Manager,
and it provides operational data and automation across your infrastructure,
and we'll be covering that within the next clip.
Now, these are not the only services that help you manage infrastructure on AWS,
but these are the ones that you will need to know for
your Certified Cloud Practitioner exam.
Now let's first look at Amazon CloudWatch.
So it is a monitoring and management service,
and there are several different facets to CloudWatch. So it
collects logs, so for example if you have log messages coming
from your custom applications, this can actually collect those logs.
It also gets metrics.
So you could have metrics being the number of users that
are visiting one of your load balancers,
for example.
Or you can even get events that are coming from most AWS services,
and it truly is a first‑class citizen in AWS,
which means that most services integrate with CloudWatch by default.
But one of the powerful features is that it enables alarms based on metrics.
So most all of the clients that I work with,
we go in and set alarms so that if something is down or not performing as it
should, CloudWatch lets you know as opposed to you having to go and find
that out yourself or have your customers tell you. So next, it provides
visualization capabilities for metrics.
So if you want to have a chart that shows a metric over time,
that's part of what is included with CloudWatch,
and because of that,
you can create custom dashboards based on the metrics that it collects.
So here's a sample dashboard where you can see some of this in use.
You can see here that it's tracking things like CPU
utilization on some EC2 servers and network traffic and EBS
activity for Elastic Block Store.
And so this is just an example of some of the types of data
that you can put into a custom dashboard.
But next, let's talk about another service, and that's AWS Config.
So, AWS Config continually monitors and records your resource configuration,
and it uses this so that you can evaluate that
against the desired configuration.
So let's look at how that works.
So here within AWS Config, first of all is it does provide a level
of configuration history for your infrastructure,
and it's also going to take a look at a set of rules.
Now, these rules, there are many that are included within AWS Config.
In addition, you can also customize the rules that are there,
or you can even create completely new ones. Next, it includes
conformance packs for compliance standards,
including things like PCI DSS.
Now that is a standard that if you're going to be accepting payment information,
you need to be able to meet this criteria, and to do that,
you can follow the rules that are already in place within AWS Config to be
sure that the infrastructure that you have is compliant. Now,
Config can also work within an AWS organization to look at all
of your regions, as well as all of the separate accounts that
you have. And one of the great things about it is that it also
provides remediation steps.
So if your infrastructure doesn't meet some of these standards, it will give you insight on how you can fix that.